#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
%\raggedbottom                           % try to avoid widows and orphans
%\sloppy
%\clubpenalty1000%
%\widowpenalty1000%

\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{6mm}       % adjust margins
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{-6mm}

\usepackage{titlesec}
\titlespacing\section{0pt}{5pt plus 4pt minus 2pt}{1.5pt plus 0.5pt minus 0.5pt}
\titlespacing\subsection{0pt}{5pt plus 4pt minus 2pt}{0.5pt plus 0.5pt minus 0.5pt}

\setlength{\parskip}{0.5\baselineskip}
\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}

\usepackage{enumitem}
\setlist{nolistsep}

% Define macro \wordcount for including the counts
\hypersetup{%
    pdfborder = {0 0 0}
}

\usepackage{tikz}
\usetikzlibrary{positioning,arrows,fit}
\tikzset{
block/.style={
  draw, 
  rectangle, 
  minimum height=1.2cm, 
  minimum width=1.9cm, align=center
  }, 
line/.style={->,>=latex'}
}
%\usepackage{flafter}

\usepackage{gillius2}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\fancyhf[HLE,HRO]{\nouppercase{\leftmark}}
\fancyhf[HC]{\textsc{Draft Project Proposal}}
\fancyhf[HLO,HRE]{\thepage}
\fancyhf[FC]{}

\let\oldenumerate=\enumerate
\def\enumerate{
\oldenumerate
\setlength{\itemsep}{3pt}
\setlength{\parsep}{0pt}
}
\let\olditemize=\itemize
\def\itemize{
\olditemize
\setlength{\itemsep}{3pt}
\setlength{\parsep}{0pt}
}
\end_preamble
\options usenames,dvipsnames,hypens,final
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman TeX Gyre Pagella
\font_sans Gillius ADF No2
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.1
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Video Steganography using Motion Vectors"
\pdf_author "E Liberis"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\headheight 3cm
\headsep 0.5cm
\footskip 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\listings_params "basicstyle={\footnotesize\ttfamily},belowcaptionskip={1\baselineskip},breaklines=true,commentstyle={\itshape\color{commentColour}},frame=L,identifierstyle={\color{black}},keywordstyle={\color{blue}},language=Java,showstringspaces=false,stringstyle={\color{orange}},xleftmargin={\parindent}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subject

\shape smallcaps
Computer Science Part II Project Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
Video Steganography using Motion Vectors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
E.
 Liberis, Homerton College
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Originator: E.
 Liberis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
	
\begin_inset VSpace 50page%*
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\series bold
Supervisor
\series default
: Daniel Thomas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\series bold
Director
\series default

\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

of
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

studies: Dr.
 Bogdan Roman
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\series bold
Overseers
\series default
: Dr.
 D J Greaves, Prof.
 J Daugman
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction and Description of the Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Steganography is a branch of Computer Science that investigates methods
 of concealing information within seemingly innocent carrier data (covers).
 Advances in this field are wildly used for enabling communications, where
 clear evidence of presence of the (encrypted) messages would attract unwanted
 attention, and similarly for detecting such covert communications taking
 place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Steganographic methods operate on cover objects (covers) -- data into which
 a secret message will be embedded.
 We prefer covers that are nowadays ubiquitous and hence will not raise
 any suspicion, which makes digital media (photographs, videos, music files)
 a perfect candidate for this role.
 Various methods exploit many redundancies of the formats the covers are
 presented in, which gave rise to three popular subbranches of this field
 -- image, audio and video steganography.
 This project explores video steganography.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Videos typically exhibit temporal correlation.
 Each two consecutive video frames are similar and the only difference between
 them is the movement of pixels in a certain region of the frame.
 Modern video codecs use this property to achieve a high level of video
 compression -- video frame could be recorded more compactly by recording
 movement of certain blocks of pixels compared to the previous frame, as
 opposed to recording the whole frame independently.
 Frames encoded in this compact manner are called P- or B- frames, and the
 data representing such frame consists of a list of blocks of pixels, that
 have moved since the previous frame (macroblocks) and the direction of
 the movement (motion vector).
 Computing motion vectors is a tradeoff between accuracy and computation
 time, so codecs typically don't look for an optimal MV, but settle for
 an approximation instead.
 MVs are encoded losslessly, and, because of the accuracy tradeoff, minor
 changes in them go unnoticed.
 H.264, currently the most-used video codec in the world, uses a concept
 of MVs as well.
 Aforementioned points make MVs a promising candidate for data embedding
 and therefore a focus of this project.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Main deliverable of this project would be a steganography tool that would
 allow end user to embed custom data into H.264-encoded videos, using clever
 embedding tactics.
 One common recommendation, that applies to all subbranches of steganography,
 is to modify the least-significant bits of encoded values to encode the
 message, be it LSBs of pixels in the image or values of the motion vector,
 as this would introduce less distortion to the cover object.
 Tactics of embedding range from na
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
"
\end_layout

\end_inset

ively changing each LSB to match the message to more clever ones, for example,
 selecting LSBs using PRNG or avoiding regions with low variance.
 These clever methods significantly complicate detecting presence of a secret
 message.
 Methods that specifically target motion vectors have been proposed by Zhang's
 et.
 al.
 and Fang's et.
 al., which make use of length, phase and inaccuracies of a motion vector.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Main goal of steganography is to prevent embedding from being detected.
 A branch of steganography that develops ways of attacking embedding schemes
 is called steganalysis.
 Another deliverable of this project is to provide a toolkit to perform
 video steganalysis, that would neatly integrate with existing scientific
 computing packages (Matlab, Python-based libraries).
 One popular approach in steganalysis is to look at statistical differences
 of modified and unmodified values, as selectively modifying certain values
 may make them stand out from the rest.
 General approaches use histograms, Chi-Squared attacks and ones, specifically
 targeting motion vectors (Deng et al.), exploit correlations seen in neighbourho
ods of MVs and other statistical metrics.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I propose a project, consisting of two main deliverables:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Development of an application, that allows end user to encrypt and embed
 their secret message into H.264 video files, using embedding algorithms
 introduced above.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Development of a compherensive steganalysis suite, that implements some
 of the recent research advances and integrates into scientific computation
 packages.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Resources Required
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I will be using C++ as a main language for developing the steganographic
 tool, primarily due to my experience with it, speed and ease of interfacing
 with codecs, which will be required for manipulating motion vectors.
 Steganalysis tools will be developed either using Matlab or Python, as
 both have extensive support for scientific computation and are popular
 within the community.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I will be using my own computer, running Ubuntu 15.04, for convenience.
 if in an unfortunate case it becomes unusable, the project can be continued
 on MCS machines.
 I accept full responsibility for this machine and I have made contingency
 plans to protect myself against hardware and/or software failure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No other special resources are required.
 Nightly backups will be made to a removable storage and 
\family typewriter
Dropbox
\family default
.
 Additionally all materials will be hosted on 
\family typewriter
GitHub
\family default
 and 
\family typewriter
git
\family default
 will be used for version control.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Starting Point
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This project uses some of the cryptography concepts introduced in Part IB
 
\shape italic
Security I
\shape default
 course.
 I have familiarised myself with general concepts of steganography and LSB
 embedding though some introductory texts and relevant papers, and briefly
 looked at H.264 codec format.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Substance and Structure of the Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aim of this project is to (a) develop a steganography tool, as described
 earlier, and (b) develop a steganalysis suite.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Both aims will require further research into H.264 codec and ability to modify
 MVs of a H.264-encoded video file, which would in turn require parsing the
 format of the codec, modifying motion vector values, and repackaging the
 data back into a playable video file.
 As developing a H.264 codec does not relate to steganography and is potentially
 error prone, I plan to leverage existing libraries and/or tools, such as
 
\family typewriter
ffmpeg
\family default
, to achieve this.
 This also suggests to use C++ for development, as codecs are typically
 written using it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Modifying MV values would require further research into embedding algorithms,
 as well as implementation and adaptation of these algorithms for use in
 a codec.
 Application should also be able to take user data and perform encryption
 prior to embedding, which would require using a relevant cryptography library.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Second aim would also require further research into steganalysis methods
 described in recent academic papers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Parse or transcode videos to get motion vectors, port over naive LSB embedding
 techniques, provide tools and analysis that breaks them, implement research
 embedding schemes, provide tools and analysis that breaks those too.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Success Criteria
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Extensions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Deng et al.
 propose to use various statistical differences between videos with and
 without embedded messages as features for a classifier.
 Using this, and other features proposed in similar works, goals of the
 project can be stretched to accommodate a classifier trained using machine
 learning.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Currently social networks, like YouTube, Facebook and Tumblr transcode (convert
 between formats) user-uploaded videos before presenting them to other users.
 This results in MVs being recomputed and overwritten, and hence the secret
 message is lost.
 This extension would explore more aggressive embedding, possibly using
 some control data and error-correction codes, to withstand such transcoding.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Timetable and Milestones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 1 & 2 (Oct 22 -- Nov 5)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research of the H.264 codec and implementing access and modification of MVs
 in a H.264 video file.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Week 3 (Nov 5 -- Nov 12)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Background reading on steganography, including relevant book chapters and
 academic papers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 4 -- 6 (Nov 12 -- Dec 3) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Investigating popular (image steganography) LSB embedding methods and their
 applicability to MV steganography; implementation thereof.
 Creation of tools that allow to carry out statistical attacks on these
 methods and their evaluation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 7 -- 8 (Dec 3 -- Dec 31)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research and implementation of both Zhang's et.
 al.
 and Fang's et.
 al.
 methods of video watermarking.
 Christmas vacation and catch-up (if required) are also planned within this
 period.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 9 -- 11 (Dec 31 -- Jan 21)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research and implementation of advanced steganalysis methods, exploiting
 the fact that embedding a message changes certain statistical properties
 of the video.
 Evaluation of created tools against all implemented embedding algorithms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Week 12 (Jan 21 -- Jan 28)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finishing and polishing the project, catch-up (if required), writing progress
 report and preparing for the presentation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 13 -- 15 (Jan 28 -- Feb 18)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Evaluation of the project and implementation of extension tasks, incl.
 experiments on human participants.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 16 -- 21 (Feb 18 -- Mar 31) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dissertation write-up.
 Possibly more extensive evaluation and extension implementation, if time
 permits.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Weeks 20 -- 23 (Mar 31 -- Apr 21)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Revision of the dissertation, reflecting on comments from supervisor and
 other advisors.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
